Hey guys welcome back to the course and this lecture.
We're going to look at a couple of ways to model rent and other office related expenses things that
tend to depend on the headcount of your team.
Now there is an easy and lazy way to do this.
And then there is a better way to do this.
We're going to start off with the easy way the easy way is to just assume some sort of per person per
month costs as an assumption for that line item then the resulting calculation is just your headcount
at the time times that corresponding costs per person per month.
This is an easy solution and if you don't have a good starting point or where to start.
This is an adequate solution as well because it makes sure that your model is actually factoring in
those costs even if it might be a little off.
So in the spreadsheet it's going to look something like this.
All right we're looking at the easy solution first.
So let's start with the top right here.
This is just the headcount calculations right.
So we're going to start off with something like this.
You know maybe we all start at 1.
And then there's some sort of schedule.
And these are the head counts for each month for the total head count and then we go all the way to
you know say four years or something like that.
All right.
There we go.
And the easy way to calculate the costs that are sometimes related to the head count is to do something
like this.
So let's say we have the different categories of cost we may have rent some legal expenses communications
of travel and entertainment equipment supplies you know miscellaneous are budget the easy way to do
it is to basically have a cost per person per month for the legal You may have every trainer that you
pay a legal group to be your advisor.
Right.
So it might just be the retainer per month.
So for these calculations super treat for rent is just going to be the total headcount at the time times
the per person or per headcount cost per month.
And its the same thing for all of these.
So as we move up in headcount then the cost goes up and then for rent.
Its the same thing except we have to do one more step which is weve got to calculate how much space
youre going to allocate per person in terms of square footage and then you can do what is the per square
foot cost per month.
You know if you're in a pretty expensive market getting some pretty you know class a kind of expensive
office you might be paying 10 bucks per square foot per month or maybe more.
So if you had 120 square feet per person then you're just by yourself.
You have that times the the rate rate there which is $10 per month and then you have your monthly rent.
So then if we extend that calculation for it then as you have more of a head count you have more of
a square footage need and then your rent goes up accordingly.
So that's the easy way to do this.
And you know when you're just starting out you can start off with this kind of solution because it still
allows you to factor these costs in.
There are some things that are missing which we're going to discuss in the next example.
But you know it's something that allows you to capture these cost items.
So at least you're putting it in your model and you're factoring that in.
Now in real life especially when it comes to having a dedicated office space for your team you don't
get to expand on the men and add space as you add an individual employee.
You need to pick an office space and then only when you run out of space you pick a bigger space and
then move into that.
So these kinds of office expenses like rent they're really working like big steps rather than a linear
pulley.
So if you have something like that where you're paying a certain price at a certain headcount and then
only when you pass a certain level you go to the next pricing tier.
That's something that is closer to reality.
Let's see how that works in the model.
OK so now let's look at the better solution the better solution is to do something that is more like
this because the better solution is when it comes to something like rent you don't really get to add
on demand with co-working spaces.
You get to do that a little bit more now but traditionally you get a team you get an office you don't
get to just at you know a little bit of office space as you need it.
You tend to have to start off with some space and then as your team grows too big you get to get a bigger
space.
So we might do something like this in terms of the square footage.
We may say Hey let's start with 500 square feet.
And then we're going to add a thousand square feet each time every time we add a head count of six or
more people.
OK.
So then what we see is the first month we start with the starting number of square footage and then
we will increment this based on the number of council what we can do then is we can do something like
this if there is both a change in the head count.
And if the total headcount at the time is a multiple of six using the model that way we know we've added
at least six.
If that's the case then add the increment which is a thousand feet to the previous square footage.
Otherwise just take the previous square footage.
Okay.
Now the reason we got to do both the checks we're trying to make sure that they're they're not the same
here.
It's as you see them not we're saying hey if there's no change if there's no change in the previous
month and the model is a multiple of six then we do the increment.
Otherwise make it the same because reason for that is if we don't make this check if we don't do this
and check here then it will actually increment to off then it would actually increment every time we
added new headcount we'd go from 1 to 2 we add a thousand and two to three with that thousand.
So we want to make sure that we only add when it isn't changing anywhere.
So this will give an example here.
Let's see where we can see when it actually.
There we go we've got an increment here right.
So here we finally have an increment and it's from you know 5 to 6 and it's a multiple of six here.
So then we're doing the increment.
And these are not the same.
Right so here from 6 to 6 they're exactly the same.
And you know even though it's a multiple Here we don't want to add in a thousand square feet again.
Right.
So that's why we do that check to make sure we only add it once every time we increment to a multiple
of six.
All right.
So now that we have that the other thing we can do is we know that cost over time especially if you're
modeling it out over multiple years costs are not going to stay the same.
They're going to generally go up.
So another way to improve your costs projections is to add something called a growth rate to the expense.
So we may start at 100 percent but let's say we want to grow rent at 3 percent a year.
What we can do is every time on the 13th month we can basically increment it by the 3 percent.
So what it's saying here is hey when it's you know in the 13th month if it is a 13 month then multiply
the previous rate times one plus that this growth rate here.
Otherwise just make it equal to the previous rate.
So then we end up seeing is in any given year it's the same until we get to the next one and then we
increment it.
Now there's an error here.
I checked it in the 11th month instead of the 13 months.
So what we've got to do here is actually we have to do a subtraction and that in addition because we
don't want to add it on the 12 month we've got to do it on that 13 month.
So I'm going to copy and paste that over and then we'll do another check right here to make sure we
got it right.
So the change should happen in the 13 months now.
So we see that from 11 to 12 right here.
11:49 That's right and then we go check again to see if it's incrementing from month 24 to 25.
So month 24 to 25.
It's right here month 24 and 25.
There we go.
We got that little bump here.
So now you've got that correctly.
So then what we do in terms of these costs now we can do them the same way as we did before but now
we're doing an increase we're multiplying by headcount times the cost but we're also multiplying by
the growth rate.
So when it's a 100 percent it's just the same.
But as we get to later months if we go to somewhere towards the end here we'll get a formula here.
We see that now it's multiply it by 100 9 percent so there's that growth factor included in your costs
projections now.
So then once we do that for all of them all of these are then what we can do is we can add it up again.
And now this way of doing it this way the way we did the rents is a better projection.
It grows more in line with what it normally happens in reality.
And then for these other expenses we're also accounting for the fact that expenses tend to grow at least
with inflation.
So this is a good way to account for that.